[Music]
eleven myths you so strongly keep
believing there are so many false myths
we spread from day to day that it's
about time the world of science created
a separate department dedicated to myth
debunking otherwise people will continue
believing that the Sun is yellow beer
makes you gain weight and that it's okay
to rinse your mouth out with water after
brushing your teeth watch this video to
see how some of the most acceptable
facts are completely untrue don't forget
to click the subscribe button and turn
on notifications to join us on the
bright side of life myth number eleven
certain parts of the tongue are
sensitive to just one taste at the
beginning of the 20th century German
scientist D P hanok came to the
conclusion that different parts of the
tongue are equally capable of
determining case although the reaction
time is somewhat different after years
of research scientists confirm to the
statement so then how is the myth born
it turns out that edwin boring a
psychologist at harvard university made
a mistake when he translated the works
of the german scientist this error
caused everyone to believe that the tip
of the tongue can taste sweet foods the
back of the tongue can taste bitter
foods and the lateral parts of the
tongue can taste sour and salty foods
[Music]
myth number ten men get beer bellies
from beer don't blame the beer for the
belly it is widely believed that men who
constantly drink beer end up with a
protruding beer belly but it's not the
beer that's to blame for this so much as
the abundance of unhealthy snacks that
often accompany the intoxicating drink
the alcohol and beer irritates the
gastric mucosa thereby causing an
increased appetite but that's not all
dr. Michael Jensen in Andrew
chronologist and obesity specialist at
Mayo Clinic in Minnesota USA says that
drinking beer makes the liver burn
alcohol instead of fat leaving the
latter to accumulate in the waste and
why they're exactly due to the
physiological characteristics of men fat
is stored in the abdomen in women it
accumulates in the hips and buttocks
myth number nine dogs see the world in
black and white when we were children
most of us were told that dogs see the
world in black and white the truth is
that they can distinguish colors just
not in the same way we do Jay needs from
the University of Washington in Seattle
prove that our furry friends are able to
perceive a limited range of colors
meaning that they can distinguish
objects of the same shape in general a
dog's vision is very similar to that of
a person with red-green color blindness
myth number eight
carrots improve eyesight this myth came
in the big during the Second World War
the British Army claimed that fighter
pilots had excellent night vision due to
their consumption of large quantities of
carrots in fact the British aircraft had
a radar onboard that made it faster and
easier to detect the enemy the messages
about the miraculous power of carrots
were invented and spread by the media so
that enemies would not learn about these
new aircraft detecting technologies the
myth became so popular that it spread
all over the world and many people still
believed that eating carrots will help
improve their vision
[Music]
myth number seven if you swim in the sea
immediately after the meal you can drown
you remember being told that you had to
wait thirty to sixty minutes after
eating a meal before going swimming
most people do and many believe that not
abiding by this rule meant that death by
drowning was sure to follow but
fortunately this is not true as there
are no recorded cases of someone
drowning because of a recent meal but it
is worth noting that swimming after a
meal may cause some uncomfortable
sensations in the stomach but this is
unlikely to happen and isn't
life-threatening myth number six if you
pull out a gray hair two gray hairs will
grow back somehow the world is convinced
that if you pull out a gray hair two
will replace it in reality if you pull
out a gray hair gray hair will replace
it but only one not two Randy Schuler
cosmetologist and editor-in-chief of The
Beauty Brains blog says that since the
hair follicle remains the hair will grow
back the same as before myth number five
your body will explode in space as
quickly as technology is progressing
nowadays it's quite possible that you
may find yourself searching for tickets
to outer space within your lifetime so
let's get something out of the way now
the fear of exploding in outer space is
not something that should hold you back
no you won't instantly explode as soon
as you step out
however after about thirty seconds you
won't be able to breathe because there's
no oxygen so make sure your outer space
store package includes a protective suit
and plenty of oxygen myth number four
the Sun is yellow
take a second to remember all of your
childhood drawings the green hills the
tall trees the blue skies and what else
oh yes the Yellow Sun it may be hard to
believe but the Sun is not yellow at all
yes it may look yellow sunlight appears
yellow and when the Sun comes out
everything does look well
a lot more yellow so what color is it
then it's actually white the Sun appears
yellow to us thanks to our atmosphere
stars that have a temperature of 10,000
Kelvin or blue stars that have a few
thousand Kelvin are red the temperature
of the Sun is somewhere in between and
that's how we know it has a distinct
white color myth number three you can
catch sti's from a toilet seat public
restrooms come in all shapes and sizes
and unfortunately all kinds of sanitary
conditions not all of which are always
satisfactory the good news is that you
don't have to for your toilet seats as
much as you may have previously thought
since germs have found a different place
to play door handles and bathroom floors
seeing as you rarely touch the bottom of
your shoes and it's not that difficult
to use a tissue to open the door you
should be pretty safe from picking up
dangerous strains of antibiotic
resistant bacteria most disease-carrying
organisms die outside of the body after
just a short while so you don't have to
fear catching an STI from a toilet seat
what you absolutely must do however is
wash your hands after using a public
restroom as the flu virus can live for
up to 48 hours on certain surfaces it
could easily be waiting for you on a
door handle myth number two you should
rinse your mouth after brushing your
teeth wait a second what
but we've been brushing our teeth for
our entire lives and it turns out we've
been doing it wrong well better late
than never the reason you should never
rinse your mouth with water right after
brushing your teeth is that it would
cause the fluoride from the toothpaste
to wash away fluoride forms a film over
your teeth and it helps keep your teeth
from decaying instead of using water
it's best to use an alcohol-free
mouthwash with fluoride to rinse out the
toothpaste foam after brushing your
teeth
[Music]
myth number one shaving your hair will
make it grow back darker and thicker
many girls in their teens are told that
shaving their legs causes the hair to
grow back darker thicker and quicker how
terrifying is that according to Kurt
stent a biologist who has studied hair
for over 30 years and wrote the book
hair a human history this fact has not
been proved a razor simply removes thin
faded hairs leaving them with thick
basis when they continue to grow it
appears that the new hair has become
darker and thicker but over time these
thick hairs grow and become as thin as
they were originally where these myths a
part of your life how do you feel now
that you know they're not true don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
stay on the bright side